title: Your Resume Should Be A Live Document
user: richardrissanen
author: Richard Rissanen
email: email@richardrissanen.com
date: 2016-08-31

+++

## Rethinking Your Resume: Your Resume Should Be A Live Document

Your Resume Should Be A Live Document. Traditional resumes often fall out of date. Also traditional resumes are not always available. Why is this a problem?

I have met several developers at meetups looking for projects. Of all those individuals that were looking for a work, none had something that they could show on the spot. If you were at a meetup and I spoke to you, would you have something to show?, something that you are proud of? or would the steps to get your resume in my hands resemble these:

> is it clear what projects your are looking for?

1. You introduce yourself to me
2. I ask you for a resume.
3. you do not have one
4. you ask for my contact info
5. i give you my contact info

> in this scenario could I walk away with your resume on my phone

6. later they have to remember to contact me. This often involves writing their resume or updating one.
7. they send the resume

How can we minimzie these steps? Well, their resume should have been online. If it had it would have been readily available. Also adding it to their vCard would have ensured proper context. They also could have updated their resume often. This would have prevented any hesitation and kept it relevant to all work they had done.

Steps to get a resume when it is a live document

1. They introduce themselves
2. I ask for a resume.
3. They supply me with a vCard with their contact info and resume link.


If your resume is not online put it online today. Get something up and iterate over it. Once it is online add it to your vCard. This way when exchanging contact information it is always relevant. Updating a resume can be a daunting task. It is because we let so much time lapse between iterations. Don't just updating your resume irregularly or when looking for work. Try using triggers to signfy when you should update it. For instance have your just finished a project for your client? update your resume, did you just learn a new framework? update your resume, did you just launch a new app? update your resume. Most work that you do is relevant to your resume and you should be updating it as it happens. By making your resume a living document it will always be readily available and always be relevant.

> Like any long running project you work on, your resume takes a great effort in the beginning and needs ongoing maintenace to ensure the best possible product.

# Steps

1. outline
2. rough draft (outline as sentences)
3. 1st draft (rough draft written to be more cohesive)
4. 2nd draft (Make engaging and relatable)
5. 3rd draft (clarify)

Problem

Context

Solution

Benefits

Actionable Suggestions
